Notes

Working on setting up the PiZero, decided to disable bluetooth, hciart and made it headless through the setup. Currently awaiting the Pi0 to perform it's update and upgrade...why did a choose one of the slowest pi's of all...

Next the plan is to perform the temporary setup of the Canon EOS-6D, capture some images just to make sure that loop is all working..
It occurs to me that my monitor being curved could become an issue and I might have to use a different one

agghhh...0% [2 base-files 56.1 kB/71.1 kB 79%] [Waiting for headers] [1 raspi-firmware 312 kB/12.8 MB 2%]   5,287 B/s 16h 15min 6s   
worse than that it seems stuck...it was but I was able to reboot the PI from the keyboard.... Ok turns out the Wan connection dropped for unknown reasons

I had to reboot and it eventually came back up... something worth looking out for in the future, might have to switch to my other wan.

...going to proceed with the update again... seems to be going smoother this time. Turns out the usb hub that i am using with the pi zero allows external power
seems like it could be why the wan dropped so im gonna dig around where I found this pi zero and see if i can find the tiny tiny barrel connector for the usb power
otherwise it will likely become an issue when it comes time to capture images. I am going in completely headless so all i need is the camera and wifi dongle
while these updates are taking place is a perfect time to go looking...

found one that fits hopefully its the correct voltage, as soon as I touched the hub the pi rebooted? So will have to start the update yet again, several things did finish through

ok to save time i will run this update later, like while im asleep and not waiting on doing the next step...so lets try and capture some images from a dlsr


maybe the curved screen will make the images more like they were collected from a fisheye lens, it could add some realism?

...ok these packages are taking forever so I will now build the rover in KSP if I cant find something prebuilt I can use then takeoff and head to the Mun..

well that was short lived, the updates got held up so no zmq until i do complete the system update. So I guess I have plenty of time to get to the mun. 
